docs: Adds third party sample tutorial (#2057)
vtex/faststore: apps/site/pages/docs/handling-third-party-scripts.mdx

---
title: 'Handling third-party scripts'
sidebar_label: 'How To Guides'
---

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra-theme-docs'

<header>

# Handling Third-Party Scripts

</header>

<Callout type="warning" emoji="⚠️">
  This documentation is currently under development.
</Callout>

> In this guide, you'll learn how to add a third-party script into FastStore projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, learn how to add a third-party script to FastStore projects.
```

> Third-party scripts often refer to elements embedded in a webpage and served by a domain different from the one being accessed. These scripts can include social sharing buttons, video player embeds, ads, analytics, and other scripts that make the web more dynamic and interactive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Third-party scripts often refer to elements embedded in a webpage and served by a domain different from the one the user is visiting. These scripts can include social sharing buttons, video player embeds, ads, analytics, and other scripts that make the web more dynamic and interactive.
```

## Before you start

- To maintain your website's performance without sacrificing the functionality offered by third-party scripts, consider incorporating only those third-party scripts that truly enhance the value of your website.

> - Ensure that you are using `@faststore/core` version 2.1.82 or above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure you are using `@faststore/core` version 2.1.82 or above. If not, upgrade it to the v2.1.82.
```

---

## Step by step

> 1. In the Starter project, inside the `src` folder, create a folder named `scripts`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In your FastStore project, inside the `src` folder, create a folder named `scripts`.
```

Reviewer: Since we s[tart by saying FastStore projects](https://github.com/vtex/faststore/pull/2057/files#diff-108863128b760ea0bc8454678f75652e23fcd7240d741c984757680fc58fdcdbR18), we can continue this pattern.

> 2. Within the `src/scripts` folder, create `ThirdPartyScripts.tsx` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Within the `src/scripts` folder, create the `ThirdPartyScripts.tsx` file.
```

> 3. In the `ThirdPartyScripts.tsx` file add your script as the example below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the `ThirdPartyScripts.tsx` file, add your script as the example below:
```

```tsx filename="src/scripts/ThirdPartyScripts.tsx" {7} copy
const ThirdPartyScripts = () => {
  return (
    <script
      type="text/partytown"
      dangerouslySetInnerHTML={{
        // Add your script here and remove the console.log example
        __html: "console.log('🚀 Hello from a third-party script!')",
      }}
    />
  )
}

export default ThirdPartyScripts
```

> 4. Run `yarn dev` in the terminal to start the development server. Access the provided localhost URL in your browser and open the Terminal tab. You should be able to see the message ("Hello from a third-party script"):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Run `yarn dev` in the terminal to start the development server. Access the provided localhost URL in your browser and open the Terminal tab. You should be able to see the message: `🚀Hello from a third-party script!`:
```

> ![third-party-script-example](https://github-production-user-asset-6210df.s3.amazonaws.com/3356699/273743662-1b7df1fa-7400-4c51-bb97-e918adfa982b.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![third-party-script-example](https://vtexhelp.vtexassets.com/assets/docs/src/third-party-scripts___2f9d925975b6217a5c3872ed96fc6bd7.png)
```

Author: ooopss! thanks @Mariana-Caetano  ❤️
